---  
  
**VoteMatch**   
  
** Vouchers for school choice **

**POSITIONS**

  * **Strongly ****Support** means you believe: The government should not be in the business of running schools. State-funded vouchers should pay for privately-run education at private schools, parochial schools, charter schools, home-schooling, or whatever schools parents choose. Bush's "No Child Left Behind" act sets the stage for terminating failing schools. 
  * **Support** means you believe: School choice helps the poor who would otherwise be stuck in failing schools. Why should only the elite be able to afford private school? Subsidize parents' school choices to foster equality, as long as the school respects separation of church and state, and meets basic state standards. Charter schools are a good compromise. 
  * **Oppose** means you believe: Continue experimenting with charter schools, and with public school choice, but only as a limited experiment, and no vouchers. We should create pressure to improve our public schools, not abandon them. Bush's "No Child Left Behind" act is an unfunded mandate. 
  * **Strongly Oppose** means you believe: Public schools are an important component of American society. Improve public schools rather than destroying them with vouchers. More teachers, smaller classes, more funding - then parents will _choose_ public schools. 

This question is looking for your views on how large a role the government
should play in running our school systems. However you answer the above
question would be similar to your response to these statements:

  * Extend school choice to private as well as public schools 
  * Allow taxes to fund parochial schools 
  * Extend charter schools nationwide

* Support "No Child Left Behind" 

How do you decide between "Support" and "Strongly Support" when you agree with
both the descriptions above? (Or between "Oppose" and "Strongly Oppose"). The
strong positions are generally based on matters of **PRINCIPLES** where the
regular support and oppose positions are based on **PRACTICAL** matters. If
you answer "No Opinion," this question is not counted in the VoteMatch answers
for any candidate. If you give a general answer of Support vs. Oppose,
VoteMatch can more accurately match a candidate with your stand. Don't worry
so much about getting the strength of your answer exactly refined, or to think
too hard about the exact wording of the question -- like candidates!

  * **Strongly Support** means you believe in the **principle** of limiting government's role in schooling. 
  * **Support** means you believe in school choice for **practical** reasons of improving education. 
  * **Oppose** means you believe more **practical** improvements could be made by focusing on public school improvement. 
  * **Strongly Oppose** means you believe in the **principle** of public education. 
****BACKGROUND**

### School Choice

School Choice generally refers to a school district allowing parents to decide
which school within the district to send their kids to. The political issue is
whether to allow the choice to include private schools, parochial schools, and
home schooling at taxpayer expense. Taxpayer funding of parochial schools
potentially violates the Constitutional separation of church and state.
Taxpayer funding of private schools is controversial because it subsidizes
parents who are currently paying for private schools themselves, and are
usually more wealthy than the average public school family.

### Charter Schools

Charter schools are publicly-funded and publicly-controlled schools which are
privately run. They are usually required to adhere to fewer district rules
than regular public schools.

### Vouchers

Vouchers are a means of implementing school choice -- parents are given a
voucher by the school district, which entitles them to, say, $4,000 applicable
to either public school or private school tuition. The value of the voucher is
generally lower than the cost of one year of public education (which averages
$5,200), so private schools (where tuition averages $8,500) may require cash
payment in addition to the voucher.

### Education Buzzwords

Generally, any reference to standards, or especially to dealing with failing
schools, implies support of school vouchers. Generally, any reference to
smaller classrooms, or especially to building public schools, implies
opposition to funding private schools. Further decoding of education buzzwords
are detailed under [Education](../Background_Education.htm).  

### K-12 Education Statistics

  * **_Total spending is $260 billion**_, (7% federal; the rest split state & local) rising by 5% per year. 
  * **_Student population is 50 million**_, rising slowly (1 million per year) since 1984. 
  * **_Public school spending is $5,200 per student**_, staying about even with inflation. 
  * **_Parochial school costs $4,200 per student**_, not discounting church-provided buildings & other subsidies. 
  * **_Private school costs $8,500 per student**_, not discounting scholarships or other financial aid. 
  * **_90% attend public schools**_; about 6 million attend private & parochial schools. 
  * **_78% of schools have Internet access**_; 97% plan to by the year 2000. 
  * **_27% of classrooms have Internet access**_; lower in poor and minority schools. 
  * [College Statistics](../Background_Education.htm#Stats) are detailed on the Education page. 

**|  [Close](javascript:closeWin\(\)) | **  
---

